                            *\\Risk Factors//*

    There are three main risk factors discussed when talking about cyber bullying.
        These risk factors are perpetration, victimisation, and bystanding.

                        Risk Factors for Perpetration

    For perpetration, risk factors include age(peaking at 11 to 14 years of age), 
time spent online, views accepting or normalising aggression, and having been 
victimized oneself. There are psychological factors as well, including, 
moral disengagement, risky online behaviours, lower self-control, thrill-seeking 
behaviours and impulsivity. Social and community risk factors relate to 
school engagement and poorer relationships with parents.

                        Risk Factors for Victimization

    For victimization, risk factors include, being a victim or a perpetrator of 
traditional bullying, anger, risky online behaviour, frequency of internet use,
moral disengagement, and hyperactivity. Other factors such as lack of self-control, 
social anxiety, aggressive thoughts and antisocial behaviour, and lack of empathy 
have also been associated with cyberbullying victimization. Age is again a risk factor, 
with some research also indicating that females might be at greater risk. Interpersonally, 
poorer parent-child relationships and a lack of parental supervision during online 
activity are also associated with increased risks of online victimisation. Community 
factors include minority identification such as, racial groups, persons with chronic 
health conditions as well as persons with a history of sexual abuse, all of whom are 
more likely to be cyberbullied than their peers. 


                        Risk Factors for Bystanding

For bystanding, risk factors suggest that intervention in cyberbullying is 
less likely when other bystanders are present, and where the victims’ responses 
are not readily available and oftentimes bystanders will even join the bully. 
Intervention is also less common when the perceived risk is high, for example when 
the perpetrator is popular, the bystander feels they would not receive support from 
others, are afraid of consequences for taking action or damaging a relationship with 
the bully. Bystanders often have low self-efficacy by believing they do not have the 
necessary skills or ability to intervene; or have lower levels of affective empathy.
